Clang. Clang. Clang. Clang. Swish! All About Kawhi Leonard’s Buzzer-Beater Victor Mather It was a shot you will see repeated on highlight shows and YouTube for years to come. A shot to win a game and a series. A shot that shouldn’t have gone in, but somehow did. On Sunday night, Kawhi Leonard beat the buzzer with a high-arcing, deep-in-the-corner jump shot that sent the Toronto Raptors past the Philadelphia 76ers in Game 7 of the Eastern Conference semifinal, 92-90. It took a few beats longer than your standard buzzer-beater, but for fans of anyone but Philadelphia, the wait was worth it. The Background It had been a hard-fought series. The Sixers had seized home-court advantage with a win in Game 2. The Raptors got it back by winning Game 4. The series ultimately headed, seemingly inevitably, to Game 7 in Toronto. Toronto led for much of the game, but never by a large margin. With 1 minute 14 seconds left, the Raptors seemed to take a grip on the series at last, grabbing a 4-point lead. But the Sixers made some free throws, and Leonard missed a 10-footer and then a 3-pointer. Jimmy Butler tied the score for Philadelphia. There were 4 seconds left. Few in the arena doubted that Leonard would get the last shot. He was the Raptors’ star and already had a game-high 39 points. It was just a question of where he would wind up when he took it, and if it would go in. The Shot Leonard used a screen to get free and received the ball near the edge of the center circle. He then dribbled, circling the key and curling deep into right corner. First Ben Simmons followed him, and then the seven-footer Joel Embiid came over to help out, to try to at least alter the shot that was coming. Leonard headed toward the baseline. Two seconds, one. With less than a second on the clock, he uncorked an off-balance jumper, his feet leaving the floor from just inside the 3-point line. Embiid jumped and put an arm up. Sensing this, Leonard sent it higher than usual on his release, 18 feet high according to estimates. On paper, it was not the most felicitous shot. The ball sailed high, came down and hit the near edge of the rim. Generally, that’s not a good sign. But it bounced high, then dropped and hit the rim again. This time it looped over to the far rim, and hit that, bouncing a lot lower, a lot softer. Then a fourth bounce on the far rim. The clock had expired by then. And then the ball dropped in. Longtime N.B.A. followers had trouble remembering a shot that took so long between launch and resolution. Certainly not one to decide a playoff Game 7. The Reaction Leonard tends not to be too excitable, but after hitting the shot he screamed with joy. In the news conference afterward, he reverted to character. “Embiid was guarding me,” he said. “He's taller, longer than me, so I end up finding a spot that I like, that I work on. I just knew I had to shoot it high.” “It ended up getting a soft touch and going in.” Social media was a little more excited. LeBron James could only speak in punctuation: “!! !! !! !! !! !! !!” The Aftermath Leonard wound up with 41 points and a staggering 243 in the series. In the fourth quarter on Sunday, he was six for nine for 15 points. But regardless of how the Raptors fare in the Eastern Conference finals against Milwaukee, his time in Toronto may be short. He is a free agent this summer and has been the subject of frequent news media reports linking him to several teams. After the loss, the Sixers may find themselves tearing down their team. Predictably some were already calling for the head of Coach Brett Brown. As Marc Stein reported in The Times: “Brown, I’m told, has little chance of surviving a second-round exit.” The future in Philly of Butler, Tobias Harris, J.J. Reddick, even the polarizing Simmons — basically everyone but Embiid — also is uncertain. How different things might have been in Philadelphia had Leonard’s shot gone an inch or two the other way. Or simply bounced off the rim instead of dropping through it. As for the Raptors, they advanced to the conference finals for the second time in their history. In 2016, they lost to James and the Cavaliers. Now Giannis Antetokounmpo and the Bucks await. The Context Leonard’s shot was  the first buzzer-beater in a Game 7 in N.B.A. history, the league said. Before Sunday, the most memorable buzzer-beater of these playoffs came in Game 5 of the Blazers-Thunder series, when Damian Lillard hit a 37-foot bomb to eliminate Oklahoma City. It’s hard to believe a crazier shot would come along a couple weeks later. But the shot that came to mind for most Raptors fans came in 2001. Once again it was Game 7 of the Eastern Conference semifinals. Once again the 76ers were the opponents. There were 2 seconds left and the Raptors trailed by 1. Vince Carter took the shot. He was off balance and right about on the 3-point line. Sound familiar? That shot hit the rim. And it went out. This one went in. 
England set to ring changes and rest Jos Buttler for third Pakistan ODI England continue to shuffle their pack during preparations for the World Cup, which have gone well for all but Alex Hales. The team have been tested in all three of their international games but have won them all. Now they are in Bristol, a venue that offers mixed memories. The precise composition of the XI for the third ODI against Pakistan is unclear but one thing is certain: the squad will not be winding down at the Mbargo nightclub afterwards. Jofra Archer and Adil Rashid are almost certain to be missing – neither practised on Monday – and it is likely Jos Buttler will be keeping his powder dry, which would enable Jonny Bairstow to have an outing with the gloves. It is hard to keep track but, though Bairstow is now reinstated as the Test keeper, he is the reserve in the ODI squad. The expectation is Joe Denly may take the place of Buttler at a ground that is now so small that Eoin Morgan is reluctant to play more than one specialist spinner – Bristol used to be one of the largest grounds in the country until the developers set to work. Morgan may opt for an extra bowler, which makes sense on several levels. Much is often made about the depth of England’s batting but this applies only if those players are in some sort of form. One of the goals over the next fortnight must be to ensure Ben Stokes, Moeen Ali, Chris Woakes and Archer have some batting time. Jason Roy is bound to play. So, too, is Morgan, who will become England’s most capped ODI cricketer. Roy made 87 at Southampton, which would satisfy most batsmen, but he was hardly ecstatic about that innings. “OK is the right word,” he said. “I was not quite myself. There was certainly a bit of rustiness there.” Still, 87 is not a bad return when a little short of form. Even better, the back spasms have disappeared. “The back actually feels way better than before,” Roy said. “I should have had the injection earlier. There are absolutely no worries at all now.” There was one shot at Southampton, an extra cover drive off Faheem Ashraf that went for six, that was a mini-turning point, which is often the way. One shot can transform a batsman’s confidence. Roy was asked whether he had ever hit a ball more sweetly. “No. That’s as good as it gets. Sorry, lads. I’ve played that shot before and maybe got out a couple of times. I guess it was just instinct. I was struggling a little bit and then it was nice to get one out of the sweet spot and I felt good from there.” The Spin: sign up and get our weekly cricket email. Roy is looking to capitalise in Bristol but, like most of the England team, he is wary of looking too far ahead. The armchair strategists wonder whether he could have an impact on the Ashes series. He would like to but said: “My focus is on tomorrow and the rest of this series so that I’m in the right state mentally and physically. The weight of runs will come hopefully and, if the [Ashes] call comes, then brilliant.” England are confident Jimmy Anderson has not sustained any long-term damage after limping out of Lancashire’s Royal London Cup defeat by Hampshire on Sunday. The paceman is “a little sore” after being struck on the knee by a straight drive.
Florida prosecutors drop charges against Conor McGregor over alleged robbery. Prosecutors have dropped charges against former UFC champion Conor McGregor after he allegedly smashed a fan’s phone outside a Miami hotel. Prosecutors in Miami said on Monday the victim has stopped cooperating with investigators and has recanted his story. The Miami Herald reports the fan, Ahmed Abdirzak, dropped his civil lawsuit with McGregor after reaching a settlement. Abdirzak had been seeking $15,000 in damages. Florida assistant state attorney Khalil Madani said that Abdirzak “has credibility issues as he’s changed his previously sworn testimony.” He added, in a written summary that: “Based on the witness’s credibility issues, his unwillingness to respond to a subpoena and the inability of the witnesses to testify as to his subjective mindset, the State of Florida cannot prove the charges against Mr McGregor beyond a reasonable doubt.” McGregor was arrested in March over the incident. According to a lawsuit, Abdirzak and other fans were taking video of McGregor outside a hotel when the fighter allegedly punched the phone out of Abdirzak’s hand, repeatedly stamped on it and walked off with it in his pocket. McGregor appeared to announce his retirement from mixed martial arts a few weeks after his arrest. McGregor, the former UFC featherweight and lightweight champion, tweeted: “Hey guys quick announcement, I’ve decided to retire from the sport formally known as ‘Mixed Martial Art’ today. “I wish all my old colleagues well going forward in competition. I now join my former partners on this venture, already in retirement. Proper Pina Coladas on me fellas!” The Irishman, who finishes with a 21-4 record, has not fought since October last year when he lost to lightweight champion Khabib Nurmagomedov at UFC 229. McGregor was suspended for six months after that fight ended with brawls spreading into the crowd.
Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City can be judged with England’s very best Richard Williams The champions have retained their title through a manager persuading players to reach into areas of unexplored potential In the aftermath of Manchester City’s victory, Vincent Kompany said something that sounded like a Zen riddle: “We have such an incredible desire to overachieve. Because we are such a good side, overachieving is difficult.” But isn’t overachieving the business of underdogs? Surely that’s what Claudio Ranieri’s Leicester had to do to win the Premier League three years ago, not what was required from Pep Guardiola’s side, pieced together at enormous expense and with unparalleled technical resources, in order to reach the same goal. What the City captain was saying was that in order to do what they did this season, it was necessary for the players to exceed their known abilities and to reach into the areas of unexplored potential. To persuade internationals from Spain, Brazil, Argentina, France and elsewhere to give you that is the mark of an exceptional manager. What Guardiola has given them in return is membership of a team worthy of being judged against the very best. Attempts at definitive comparisons with the past are inevitably doomed by the recognition of how conditions change over time. But the true greats can at least be grouped together, and, as they retained their title by a single point from Liverpool, claims on behalf of Guardiola’s City deserved the most serious consideration. Drawn from living memory, rather than merely the 27 years of the Premier League era, the list would start with Stan Cullis’s Wolves, not just three times league champions in the 1950s but, as conquerors of Racing Club of Buenos Aires, Dinamo and Spartak of Moscow and Honvéd of Budapest, the last confident flowering of the classical English style. It would continue with Bill Nicholson’s Double-winning Spurs of 1960-61, Matt Busby’s European Cup-winning Manchester United of 1968, Bob Paisley’s seamless Liverpool dynasty of 1975-83, Alex Ferguson’s treble-winning United of 1999, Arsène Wenger’s Invincible Arsenal of 2003-04, and José Mourinho’s finest Chelsea team, the fearsome champions of 2005-06. For a combination of glorious style and absolute dedication to the business of winning, Guardiola’s team stand comparison with any of those great predecessors. Few rival supporters would withhold applause for the way they went about the job this season, patiently adhering to the evolving principles of possession-based football Guardiola absorbed during his years as a player and coach at Barcelona, trusting in each other as they emerged from the run of mid-season defeats that gave their chief rivals the glimpse of glory that turned out to be a mirage. In the end, there was no last-minute denouement of the kind that made legends of George Graham’s Arsenal in 1989 or City themselves under Roberto Mancini in 2012; the suspense of the day had been slightly undermined by the knowledge City’s destiny was in their own hands. But as Guardiola’s players, after going behind, put four past Brighton, they were providing the climax to the run of 14 consecutive victories that saw them overhaul their rivals: a sequence of such relentless brilliance it would be hard to find a parallel. Yet this was not relentlessness without a human heartbeat. Guardiola may be a technologist of football, a manager who specialises in putting theory into practice, but his personality allows space for the emotions that came to the surface as his players approached their moment of destiny. Against Leicester in their penultimate fixture, with the pursuing Liverpool in full cry, the excruciating tension was finally relieved by Kompany’s astonishing strike: one among many candidates for the goal of the season, but surely the one that made time stop as its effect on the world was assessed. And although championship celebrations like the one that took place on the pitch at Brighton can cover a thousand festering grievances, the warmth between Guardiola and his players seemed to express his approach. This is a man who can leave top players on the sidelines without creating resentment, at least in the short term. Perhaps they trust him to know when, how and why to bring them back. Externally, for example, there was surprise on Sunday when Riyad Mahrez, last summer’s trophy purchase, was included for his only his fourth league start since the beginning of the year. But it was Mahrez who dummied an opposing defender with elegant composure before striking the sumptuous goal that, by giving City a two-goal cushion, effectively settled the destination of the title. A Leroy Sané or a John Stones might reasonably expect to benefit from the same strategic consideration. The football City play is not entirely focused on beauty, of course. Under Guardiola, they also specialise in a type of low-key tactical midfield fouling that avoids violence and comes with an instant apology, disrupting the opposition’s flow and deflating their confidence while taking advantage of the reluctance of English referees to issue yellow cards early in a match. It may be that officials from other countries take a different view, which would at least partially explain City’s inability to make it beyond the quarter-finals of the Champions League. If there is another source of satisfaction to be derived from this enthralling title race, it is in the memory of how the teams from the middle and lower end of the table kept the two final contestants honest in the closing stages. The Premier League may be a highly stratified entity, with a top six and a middle eight and a bottom six, but nowhere in his travels would Guardiola have found such challenges as those mounted by Burnley, Leicester and even Brighton in his last three matches: three teams with nothing much to gain but still willing to show their pride in the fight.
Put the smartphone down Aggers old chap. This spat really isn’t cricket Barney Ronay The BBC has reprimanded its cricket correspondent Jonathan Agnew after a foul-mouthed rant against journalist Jonathan Liew Oh, stop it Aggers. The news that Jonathan Agnew MBE, the BBC’s voice of cricket, has been reprimanded by the corporation for repeatedly calling a journalist at the Independent “a cunt” might come as a bit of shock to those who follow Agnew’s sunny broadcast presence. Everyone loves a high-profile tiff. But this isn’t really a tiff, just a bad judgment call on one side. Agnew has since apologised to Jonathan Liew after the abusive direct messages came to light. I should declare an interest here. I know and like Liew, and feel dismayed on his behalf that he should receive a sustained and menacing screed of abuse from a senior figure in his industry. I also understand why Agnew was upset, as he believed that Liew was calling him a racist. The abusive messages were a response to an article Liew had written in which he expressed concern about some of the language used in the media to describe Jofra Archer’s selection for England. Liew was writing about the notion of structural prejudice in the way we express ourselves, a shifting, gossamer thing that can often creep in unexpectedly but which can reinforce unhelpful tropes and stereotypes. This was the passage towards the end that led to the BBC cricket correspondent’s foul-mouthed tirade, not to mention some unpleasant accompanying allusions to mental health problems. Liew wrote: “‘A huge call,’ warned Jonathan Agnew. ‘Morale and camaraderie is a big part in team performance.’ Which feels instinctively unarguable – who doesn’t love morale and camaraderie, after all? – until you begin to ask why Archer is deemed such a grave threat to it.” There was a comparison with Agnew’s warmer welcome for Gary Ballance, a white player of Zimbabwean origin. Further down, and summing up a lot of elements above, Liew wrote: “There’s an incendiary word you could posit to describe all this, but I’m not going to use it.” This was the first response from Agnew: “Fucking disgraceful. You have massive chips on your shoulder ... you are a racist.” Liew replied that this was not about name calling but a wider societal issue to do with “the huge privilege we enjoy in the media, the subtle and often unconscious biases that occasionally seep into our language … Happy to engage further on this topic if you are prepared to put your pantomime outrage to one side. If not apologies for the offence caused and I wish you well.” What came next was an unanswered blurt of abusive fury. Agnew: “You really have issues” Agnew: “Apologise now”. Agnew: “I’m going no further on the advice of people who know you and think you are a cunt. I know you are. Think on.” Agnew: “CUNT” Agnew: “You are so strange I don’t know if you’d be upset to know those who think you are a cunt” Agnew: “If you think so in hindsight then you have a chance. If you don’t ... Agnew: “I’m SO angry” Agnew: “Book yourself in somewhere” Agnew: “You need help” Agnew: “Who the fuck are you?” At the end of which, we probably all need help. What’s going on here exactly? I should point out that Liew is a waspish but well-liked journalist. The notes of the Cricket Writers’ Club meeting where Agnew raised his grievances in a written statement record the room bursting into laughter when Liew, who was late, walked in halfway through. The other interest to declare here is that Agnew has done something similar but far less serious and bullying with me. Those who know him say Agnew is a very nice man, that he can just be thin-skinned. This is probably right. In my case Agnew was angered by an article in which I said I preferred TalkSport’s coverage and the Agnew-style voice could be a bar to cricket for some who found him slightly bumptious and Middle England. In response he sent me a weirdly personal angry message. Later there was a strange email late at night referring to a listener interaction, and telling me “people like you” don’t realise how loved he is, how nice he is, what a beautiful person. In the course of which he took time to very lovably call me “a wanker”. Which is, you have to admit, quite funny. At the time I suggested he should stop doing this kind of thing as it’s just a bad idea. He has a perfect right to take issue with people. I’m glad he cares enough. He will perhaps call me a cunt for writing this, and I defend his right to do so. Maybe he’s right! I don’t think Jonathan Agnew is a racist. I don’t think Liew ever suggested he was one but read the messages to Liew and something else emerges. Not just the sense of a pattern of unpleasant behaviour but something wider too. Abusing younger journalists from a position of power is a damaging thing to do. Even more uncomfortable is the spectacle of one of English cricket’s most influential media figures abusing a young English journalist of Chinese heritage who has brought up an issue of race, who is trying to talk about nuance and about the way we use language. Agnew can disagree with this or take it on board. He might say, I am angry about this, explain yourself. But if the response is just: you are a cunt, then he is clearly not getting this right. Agnew has now resigned from the Cricket Writers’ Club; quite rightly given his abuse of another member. And even if Danny Baker got the boot this week for something far less deliberately vitriolic, the BBC has probably done the right thing in reprimanding him. In the end this is a very minor bump in the road at the start of cricket’s big summer, something Agnew will be at the heart of. Perhaps as the sport tries to spread its wings a little it is a good moment to think about voices, about how we talk to others, and who we want to see doing that. This is something to learn from. And in the meantime, do put the sweary smartphone down my dear old thing.
Serena Williams overcomes a slow start to make smooth progress in Italian Open Serena Williams and Venus Williams will face each other in the second round of the Italian Open, a clash that constitutes the first meeting between the two siblings on European clay for 17 years. Serena fell behind 3-1 in the first set before opening her clay court season with a routine 6-4, 6-2 win over Swedish qualifier Rebecca Peterson on Monday in the first round of the Italian Open. After a shaky start, she began to take control with her baseline power on a windy day at the Foro Italico. When she ran down a passing attempt from Peterson and replied with a cross-court winner to break for a 5-2 lead in the second set, she let out a scream and bent over as she pumped both of her fists. Serena was playing for the first time since withdrawing ahead of her third-round match at the Miami Open in March because of a left knee injury. The last time she had played in Rome was when she won the last of her four Italian Open trophies in 2016. Venus, who won her only Rome title 20 years ago, defeated Elise Mertens 7-5, 3-6, 7-6 (4) after more than three hours, requiring nine match points before eliminating her Belgian opponent. The Williams sisters’ last match on red clay came in the 2002 French Open final, won by Serena. In their last match in Rome, Venus won their second career meeting way back in the 1998 quarter-finals. “That’s crazy,” Serena said. “I vaguely remember that, so I don’t really remember ... We play each other a lot. Seems like every tournament nowadays we meet early. It is what it is.”Serena is now a 37-year-old mother and Venus is 38. “It doesn’t change at all. We’re just as fierce, Venus is just as fierce,” Serena said. “We both really want to get some match play. We’ll both do the best that we can.”Serena leads the career series 18-12. “I know that she’s going to play really well and compete really well,” Venus said. “That’s a given.”Meanwhile, Johanna Konta will face American Sloane Stephens in the second round after a straight-sets win over her compatriot Alison Riske. Konta took fewer than 90 minutes to defeat Riske 6-4 6-1 in the first round on Monday. The British No 1 beat 2017 US Open champion Stephens in Brisbane in January, their only previous meeting. Others advancing on the women’s side included Dominika Cibulkova, Katerina Siniakova and Yulia Putintseva.In the men’s draw, Kyle Edmund bowed out after a first-round defeat to Fernando Verdasco. Edmund took the first set 6-4, but Spaniard Verdasco hit back to win the second and third 6-4, 6-2 and wrapped up victory in two hours and 23 minutes. The 2010 Rome semi-finalist, who converted five of the 16 break points he earned against the Briton, will meet fifth seed Dominic Thiem in the second round. In other action, 13th-seeded Borna Ćorić rallied past Felix Auger-Aliassime 6-7 (4), 6-3, 6-4 in a clash of two of the top young players on tour. Auger-Aliassime struggled with his serve, hitting seven double-faults to Ćorić’s one.
UEFA Investigators Set to Seek Manchester City’s Ban From Champions LeagueTariq PanjaAn investigation into accusations that Premier League champion Manchester City misled European soccer’s financial regulators in pursuit of its success on the field is expected to recommend that the team be barred from the Champions League, European soccer’s richest competition and the trophy the club covets most.English soccer authorities and officials at UEFA, European soccer’s governing body and the organizer of the Champions League, have for months been investigating Manchester City amid allegations of rule-breaking revealed in damaging leaks over much of the past year. Members of the investigatory chamber of UEFA’s financial control board, a group set up to analyze the accounts of clubs suspected of breaking strict cost-control regulations, met two weeks ago in Nyon, Switzerland, to finalize their conclusions.The investigatory panel’s leader, the former prime minister of Belgium Yves Leterme, will have the final say on the submission to a separate adjudicatory chamber, which could be filed as soon as this week. The body is expected to seek at least a one-season ban.Even the suggestion of a ban would be a stinging rebuke for Manchester City and its Gulf owners, who celebrated a fourth Premier League title in eight seasons on Sunday. They long have sought to add the Champions League — club soccer’s top prize — to the club’s growing haul of domestic trophies, and any effort to bar the team is likely to spark a monumental legal fight.Manchester City’s current squad, assembled and financed at the cost of more than $1 billion, is just the latest example of the financial might the club’s owner, Sheik Mansour bin Zayed al-Nahyan, the brother of the ruler of the United Arab Emirates, can bring to bear. Sheik Mansour has invested billions over the past two decades — on players, coaches, facilities and the team’s operations — to transform Manchester City, which played in England’s second tier as recently as 2002, into one of soccer’s biggest and most successful brands.It remains unclear if any Champions League ban, if levied, would be enforced next season or in the 2020-21 campaign. Qualification games for next season’s tournament begin in June, meaning UEFA faces a race against time to finalize a sanction that City would have the right to appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport.Manchester City has vigorously denied wrongdoing, and its officials have warned UEFA that they would mount an aggressive response to any effort to bar the club from the competition. “The accusation of financial irregularities are entirely false,” City said in a statement earlier this year. “The club’s published accounts are full and complete and a matter of legal and regulatory record.”If UEFA is unable to establish a case and enforce a punishment, it risks seeing its system of financial rules — in place since 2011, and designed to impose a measure of financial fairness within the European soccer economy — rendered meaningless. Several officials on the financial control bodies also have said privately that their reputations could be harmed if their work is seen to be toothless.Many of the allegations of financial impropriety and rule-breaking lodged against Manchester City came to light after they were reported by news media outlets with access to the so-called Football Leaks files. The files are said to include emails and internal club documents showing efforts by City to circumvent UEFA’s financial fair-play regulations by masking cash infusions from a United Arab Emirates state-backed investment company through inflated sponsorship agreements with entities including the U.A.E.’s national airline, Etihad. Etihad is City’s principal sponsor, its name adorning the team’s stadium, its signage during matches and even the front of the players’ jerseys. City has not labeled false any of the information reported to date. Instead, it has dismissed the reports as “an organized and clear attempt” to smear the club’s reputation through the publication of documents that it says were obtained illegally. The European authorities in January unmasked a Portuguese citizen as the hacker behind Football Leaks, a clandestine operation that revealed some of the soccer industry’s most closely held secrets.UEFA’s financial rules, first implemented in 2011, were designed to prevent clubs from risking their financial futures by overspending on talent. At the time, dozens of teams were tens of millions of dollars in debt, in part because of a rapid rise in the cost of top players fueled by lavish spending by a handful of superwealthy owners.The rules permit sponsorships from companies linked to a club’s owners as they try to balance their accounts, provided the agreements are struck at prices that reflect the market rate.Etihad signed up as principal sponsor of Manchester City a year after Sheikh Mansur’s takeover, branding the club’s jersey, its stadium and an affiliated campus City has built. But an internal email published by German news weekly Der Spiegel last year suggested that the airline financed only 8 million pounds ($10.4 million) of the 59.5 million pound ($77.8 million) agreement, with the rest coming from ADUG, the investment vehicle Mansour used to buy City. The Speigel reports also outlined a number of other arrangements that allowed the club to evade UEFA’s financial regulations.According to the people with knowledge of the investigation, City’s punishment most likely will be linked to an accusation that it provided misleading statements in resolving an earlier case, as well as false statements to licensing authorities in England, and not over the true value of the sponsorship agreements. That made the case a curious fit for the financial control officials, who were assigned the case instead of UEFA’s main disciplinary body.In 2014, City agreed to a settlement agreement with UEFA related to an earlier breach of the spending rules; as punishment, it agreed to pay a conditional 49 million pound fine (about $63.4 million) and to accept restrictions on incoming transfers.Marc Stein's NewsletterMarc Stein has covered Jordan. He's covered Kobe. And LeBron vs. the Warriors. Go behind the N.B.A.'s curtain with the league's foremost expert.As part of their current inquiry, the UEFA investigators, an independent group of governance and finance specialists led by Leterme, met with City officials in April in Switzerland. The investigators were unconvinced by the club’s explanations, according to a person with knowledge of those discussions.Their decision to press forward in seeking punishment against Manchester City could have serious implications for UEFA, which essentially would be accusing a team backed by the U.A.E.’s royal family of cheating and lying to a range of stakeholders, including the Premier League, as it built itself into a champion.The outcome of the case will be monitored closely amid mounting concern over the credibility of UEFA’s financial fair play regulations when it comes to sanctioning the biggest clubs. Paris St.-Germain, the French club that also is owned by Gulf royalty, in its case the ruling family of Qatar, managed to avoid a major punishment recently when it faced similar questions about its sponsorship agreements, and its ability to comply with the financial control mechanisms, when it bought the world’s two most-expensive players — the forwards Neymar and Kylian Mbappé — in a single summer transfer window.P.S.G. and UEFA have a tangled relationship. The team’s owners also run beIN Sports, the broadcaster that is UEFA’s biggest media rights buyer. Both the club and beIN Sports are run by Nasser al-Khelaifi, a Qatari national who was elected to a position on UEFA’s executive board earlier this year.
Continuing the Theme: Yankees Get Aaron Hicks Back but Lose Miguel AndujarJames Wagner when it comes to injuries this season, every Yankee step forward seems to be accompanied by two backward. Before Monday’s game against the Baltimore Orioles, the Yankees welcomed a key player, center fielder Aaron Hicks, back from the injured list to make his season debut. He had been out since March 1 with a lower back injury that required two cortisone shots and a lot of rehabilitation. But in the afternoon, the Yankees announced that Monday’s scheduled starter, Jonathan Loaisiga, would be scratched and shut down for four weeks with a rotator cuff strain in his throwing shoulder. He became the 17th Yankee to land on the I.L. this season. The most ominous news was yet to come: third baseman Miguel Andujar returned to the I.L., his troubles at the plate making clear that the labral tear in his right shoulder was still affecting him. Andujar, 24, was expected to be re-examined soon, and the possibility of season-ending surgery has not been ruled out.“I wouldn’t say it’s necessarily off the table, but I wouldn’t say that it’s more so on it now,” Boone said of the possibility of surgery. “We’ve got to get a better handle on this, and then probably just get him built up in the best way possible if we can move forward with that.”Andujar, the American League rookie of the year runner-up last season, originally hurt his throwing shoulder diving back to third base on a pickoff attempt on March 31. At the time, the Yankees said the tear was small and that Andujar still registered good strength in his shoulder. Boone on Monday said Andujar had received a couple of medical opinions in which surgery was not suggested. Andujar’s situation is a bit murky: Some players who sustained labrum tears — including an unnamed former Yankees pitcher, according to General Manager Brian Cashman — have undergone rehabilitation and returned to play without needing surgery.“Some people can sustain and last with the new norm and others can’t because it’s painful, and you have to react to that pain and surgery comes in to be an intervention to fix,” Cashman said last month. Andujar has not publicly complained of any pain, but his performance at the plate has caused concern. He had said that the injury manifested itself most when he threw, not hit, so the Yankees put him through a stretching and strengthening routine, plus a gradual throwing program, before he returned from the first I.L. stint on May 4.With the emergence of Gio Urshela, a sure-handed third baseman, the Yankees were able to use Andujar primarily as a designated hitter. But Andujar, usually a stout hitter, went 3 for 34 with no runs batted in, nine strikeouts and weaker contact than normal. After internal discussions, the Yankees decided to give Andujar another break.“He’s such a tough player that he’s able to deal with stuff,” Boone said. “But I do think it takes him longer to get ready each and every day.”The Yankees’ medical staff has been busy this season — and that was before Andujar and Loaisiga joined the wounded on Monday. Loaisiga, who felt discomfort in his shoulder after a bullpen session this weekend, had been filling in for James Paxton, who has been out since May 4 with left knee inflammation. The Yankees don’t need a fifth starting pitcher until May 21, and Paxton might be ready to return by then. At least one thing was certain on Monday night: Hicks had fully recovered from the back injury that was originally supposed to keep him out only a few days during spring training but lasted over two months. Boone has often referred to Hicks, 29, as one of the most underrated players in baseball — a strong defender who can smash home runs, draw walks and hit from both sides of the plate. Boone said part of the reason for Hicks’s long rehabilitation was the Yankees’ desire to make sure his body was conditioned and built back up properly. Since dealing with what he said doctors termed chronic back pain, Hicks has added a new workout routine that he said helps his core and hips, and thus his back. “When I do my core exercises, my back feels good,” he said.
Liverpool and Spurs players keen for Nations League action with EnglandThe increased competition for places in Gareth Southgate’s England squad will prompt the healthy contingent of players involved in the Champions League final on 1 June to declare themselves available for the Nations League semi-final against the Netherlands. Southgate has seen his preparations for the game in Guimarães on 6 June severely disrupted by the progress of Liverpool and Tottenham to the final at Atlético Madrid’s Wanda Metropolitano. The two clubs could contribute at least nine players – Harry Kane, Dele Alli, Eric Dier, Danny Rose, Harry Winks, Kieran Trippier, Trent Alexander-Arnold, Jordan Henderson and Joe Gomez – to the national squad, with England intending to ask them to link up at St George’s Park on the day after the game in Spain. The group would realistically be restricted to, at most, three training sessions before the semi-final against the Dutch, complicating Southgate’s plans given his desire only to select those in the best condition to start the two-game tournament. Yet, where the manager might have been tempted to rest some of their number with a view to a potential final three days later, it is understood Liverpool and Spurs players involved will express their desire to be involved in the semi-final. That is chiefly due to the increased competition around the England squad and fears that they may struggle to break back into the fold. Players such as Declan Rice and Ross Barkley demonstrated their quality when offered opportunities in the Euro 2020 qualifiers against the Czech Republic and Montenegro in March and even established players such as Alli and Henderson – mainstays of the World Cup squad last summer – will feel their places are under threat in light of the progress Southgate has instigated. The England manager intends to stagger the arrival of his players depending on when their club campaigns finish, with the first group, whose seasons ended with the culmination of the Premier League on Sunday, to link up at the national training centre in the week commencing 20 May. The contingent from Manchester City will be granted time after the FA Cup final, with any involved in the Europa League final on 29 May – Chelsea’s Ruben Loftus-Cheek is likely to be picked – expected to link up on the first weekend in June. Borussia Dortmund’s Jadon Sancho will also join up late with the Bundesliga season finishing next weekend.
Manchester City know Liverpool are 'here to stay', says Andy Roberts Liverpool left-back Andy Robertson says Premier League champions Manchester City know Jurgen Klopp's side are "here to stay" after they pushed their title rivals to the final day of the season. City successfully defended their league title on Sunday, defeating Brighton 4-1 to finish one point ahead of Liverpool. The 97 points won by the Reds is the third-highest top-flight total in English football history."We are a tight-knit group, a young group," said 25-year-old Robertson."Hopefully we will be here for many years and we will be a better team in terms of maturity and experience next year."Man City know, hopefully, we are here to stay. We know they are definitely here to stay, they are incredible."Fingers-crossed we don't lose anyone. We will go into next season as strong as ever. Whether we can put in the performances remains to be seen but we hope we can."    This was only the first step - Klopp    Guardiola: This is my toughest title yet Reds team-mate Virgil van Dijk added: "With the level we have shown this season, the consistency we have, we have to build on it, try to do it again next season. That's what we all aim for, and I am looking forward to it already."There is a togetherness we have throughout the whole club. It is also the connection we have with the fans that helps us through tough, tough moments, through tough games."Despite suffering just one defeat all season, Liverpool's 29-year wait for a league title goes on. The Reds' 97-point haul, bettering their fourth-placed finish in 2017-18 by 22 points, is the highest ever tally for any runner-up in any of Europe's top five leagues. But following their 2-0 final day victory against Wolves, manager Klopp said Liverpool's "special" season was "only the first step" as they look to overhaul City in the coming years. Klopp's side now have a second consecutive Champions League final to contest as they look to end the campaign with a trophy against Tottenham in Madrid on 1 June."We have the Champions League to play for. Everything else is forgotten about," Robertson said."In my opinion, it won't be thought of that we came second in the Premier League and all that nonsense."There have been ups and not many downs. I am sure we have learned a lot of lessons this season and we just need to take that into next."We have just fallen short to a world-class team. Ninety-seven points win every single league apart from last season so if we do that again we will keep knocking on the door and we won't be far off it."'Liverpool can barely afford to draw a game next season' - analysis BBC football expert Mark Lawrenson: You only have to look at how many points Liverpool got this season to see how good this team are. On the evidence of the past few months, they can barely afford to draw a game next season if they are going to keep up with City - who have a total of 198 points from their past two campaigns. That is why the Reds cannot rest and be too satisfied with their achievements, because they will have to improve further if they are going to challenge again. As things stand, it is hard to see anyone else being in contention for the title next year. I know the rest of the top six will all sign players in the summer, but looking at them now I don't think they will be anywhere near City or Liverpool. Read more from Lawro on why Liverpool can challenge again here.
Behind The Scenes, Trump Diligently Tries To Slash Social ProgramsIn the shadows of his constitutional crisis, the president is still doing a lot of regular Republican stuff — without help from Congress.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump’s administration is doing some wild and unprecedented stonewalling of congressional investigations, but don’t sleep on Trump’s methodical attempts to unravel the social safety net that are going on in the background. This month, the administration signaled it would like to change how the government adjusts its official poverty threshold for inflation every year, which could result in millions fewer Americans qualifying for a wide range of benefits over time.It’s only the most recent of many unilateral moves Trump has made on social policy, which all seek to fulfill an Inauguration Day promise to “get our people off of welfare and back to work.”The anti-welfare agenda notably targets immigrants, such as by trying to bar rent subsidies to families of undocumented immigrants, but any domestic program is potentially threatened.Last year, the administration said it would allow states to add “work requirements” to Medicaid, contrary to the program’s statutory purpose of providing health benefits to people with low incomes. It cut spending on Obamacare outreach and pushed to allow employers with ”moral″ objections to drop birth control from their health plans. And in December, the administration took a proposed food benefit cut ― one that House Republicans had drafted but the Senate rejected ― and stuck it into a regulation. No Congress needed! It’s difficult to compare the unilateral actions of different presidencies, but it seems that the Trump administration’s social policy power grabs have been drastic by recent standards, said Ron Haskins, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. “I think this administration’s actions on poverty and on birth control are beyond anything I have seen in the past,” said Haskins, who previously crafted welfare policy for Republicans as a staffer on Capitol Hill and in the White House. Last week, in a formal ”request for comment″ published in the Federal Register, the Office of Management and Budget asked for input regarding how the government adjusts the Official Poverty Measure for inflation each year. Currently, a family of four is officially poor if the household earns less than $25,465 annually. Later this year, the government will update the number based on the rise in prices for things like food and shelter since last year. The government has different ways of tracking inflation that it uses for a variety of purposes, such as adjusting eligibility thresholds for federal programs, repositioning tax brackets, and increasing Social Security benefits. The Trump administration hinted in its request for comment that it might prefer to adjust the poverty threshold with an inflation measure that rises more slowly than the others. Eligibility for programs such as nutrition assistance and Medicaid is linked to the poverty thresholds, so holding down the official poverty line would slow the growth of enrollment in those programs, since fewer people would qualify as average incomes outpace the slower inflation measure.  Yet another attempt by the administration to screw poor people.Experts have long debated the appropriateness of the official poverty threshold, with many favoring an alternate poverty measure that the Census Bureau produces alongside the official one. The alternate measure takes into account more sources of income, expenses and geographical price differences than the official measure. (Experts say its benefit is as a descriptive tool, not as a replacement of the regular threshold for program eligibility.) The Trump administration plopped down its request for input with total disregard for that debate, said Sharon Parrott, a senior fellow with the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. People had been arguing over the validity of the measure itself, not over its annual inflation adjustments. But the Federal Register notice provides no details about the shortcomings of the poverty measure. “Asking for public comment in apparent preparation for a policy change that could harm millions of struggling Americans over time, without providing the public with research and data on these basic questions, suggests this is not a serious effort to explore the important substantive issues that poverty measurement presents,” Parrott said in a statement. Anyone can chime in when a federal agency requests public comment on a proposed rule, though agencies especially consider expert opinions from think tanks and the like. But that doesn’t mean the administration is going to listen to the responses it doesn’t like. In the case of the Medicaid work requirements proposal, most respondents said the administration shouldn’t waive program rules to allow states to add work as a condition of eligibility for certain enrollees, said Elizabeth Lower-Basch, a senior fellow at the Center for Law and Social Policy.  “Even though the comments were 99 to 1 opposing the waivers, they approved them anyway,” Lower-Basch said.It’s commendable for an agency to seek expert opinion on policy, said Jeffrey Lubbers, an expert on administrative law and regulation at American University’s Washington College of Law. But it won’t necessarily protect the agency from a lawsuit arguing that the change ”was not supportable by the facts and was therefore arbitrary and capricious,” Lubbers said.Federal courts have thwarted the work requirements, saying the administration has clearly strayed from the purpose of the Medicaid program, which is to give poor people health care, not make them get jobs. House Democrats have already laid the groundwork for a federal lawsuit over the Trump administration’s proposed regulatory changes to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, which it borrowed from a House Republican bill that Congress didn’t pass. The regulation would kick 755,00 people off benefits next year by reducing some of the leeway states have to waive the program’s existing “work requirements” in areas with above-average unemployment rates. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-Mass.), who is leading the charge against the food benefit regulation, described the possible poverty threshold change as “yet another attempt by the administration to screw poor people.”The Trump administration has shown it’s not going to be cowed by lawsuits and bad court results, however, as it can appeal to the Supreme Court, where the president feels he can get more favorable treatment.Last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture encouraged states to take away food benefits from custodial parents who refuse to cooperate with Child Support Enforcement, a state-federal program that can track down noncustodial parents and make them pay child support. Only six states currently require SNAP recipients to cooperate with child support. Making all of them do it is another thing House Republicans tried to pass last year but couldn’t. In a joint statement, House Ways and Means Committee Chair Richard Neal (D-Mass.) and committee member Rep. Danny Davis (D-Ill.) said Congress did not intend to encourage states to withhold food benefits from people who aren’t cooperating with child support. “Taking away food assistance to punish parents who are behind on their child support payments, or who haven’t filed a child support case, makes those parents less capable of providing financial support to their children,” Neal and Davis said.
China hits back in trade war with US. China has said it will impose tariffs on $60bn (£46bn) of US goods from 1 June, extending a bilateral trade war. The move comes three days after the US more than doubled tariffs on $200bn of Chinese imports. The escalation sent stock markets down, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average closing more than 600 points lower.US President Donald Trump had warned China not to raise levies but Beijing said it would not swallow any "bitter fruit" that harmed its interests. China has raised tariffs on more than 5,000 US products, with the new rates ranging from 5% to 25%. Items affected include beef, lamb and pork products, as well as various varieties of vegetables, fruit juice, cooking oil, tea and coffee. Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a news briefing in Beijing that China would "never surrender to external pressure".Stock markets in both Europe and the US fell. The Dow Jones finished 2.25% lower while the S&P 500 ended 2.49% down and the Nasdaq index lost 3.4%. In London, the FTSE closed 0.5% lower, while the main indexes in Frankfurt and Paris were more than 1% lower. The latest round of US-Chinese trade negotiations ended in Washington on Friday without a deal. The US argues that China's trade surplus with the US is the result of unfair practices, including state support for domestic companies. It also accuses China of stealing intellectual property from US firms. As well as ordering a tariff increase on $200bn worth of Chinese imports, Mr Trump also directed the US trade department "to begin the process of raising tariffs on essentially all remaining imports from China", estimated to be valued at around $325bn.Though on Monday, Mr Trump said that he had "not made a decision" on whether to go ahead with those additional levies. Despite failing to reach a deal last week, Mr Trump said on Monday that the US has "a very good relationship" with China. He said the two sides would talk at the next G20 summit which takes place in Japan on 28-29 June."Maybe something will happen," he said. "We're going to be meeting, as you know, at the G20 in Japan and that'll be, I think, probably a very fruitful meeting."Earlier, the president had warned China against a tit-for-tat response to the US's actions last week."China should not retaliate - will only get worse!" Mr Trump tweeted shortly before news of the Chinese decision came.Mr. Trump also said China had "taken so advantage of the US for so many years".    What you asked about US-China trade    The US-China trade war in charts    The next US-China battleground US-China trade war in 300 wordsHe added that US consumers could avoid the tariffs by buying the same products from other sources."Many tariffed companies will be leaving China for Vietnam and other such countries in Asia. That's why China wants to make a deal so badly!" he said.Mr. Trump's approach in the dispute has put him at odds with his own top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, who has said "both sides will suffer". 
Does GDP tell the whole economic story? Answering a simple "How are you?" with an honest detailed answer may lead to an awkward silence. After all, it's often just longhand for "hello". But the government's official number-crunchers at the Office for National Statistics genuinely care about the response. Next week, they'll publish their statistics into how people across the country are feeling about their lives. Have they gone soft? Not quite. They've realised that how we've traditionally measured living standards or economic well-being isn't up to scratch. We typically turn to GDP - gross domestic product. That's the measure of how much companies, individuals and the government earn/spend/produce (in theory, each of those give the same answer), with an adjustment for exports less imports. It measures the nation's net income, but may not tell the whole story. First, there are things which can skew the big picture. Take the first three months of this year, when the economy grew by 0.5%, according to the latest official figures. At the time, many companies were busy stockpiling components and finished goods due to fears of a no-deal Brexit. That makes growth look stronger, but that buzz of activity reflects contingency planning rather than a response to strong demand. And it may mean less of that activity further down the line, making growth look weaker in subsequent quarters. Winners and losers. Even without distortions, GDP may not reflect the individual situation. The fates of government businesses and households will differ hugely in any quarter. The ONS provides a breakdown of some details. It has recently delved deeper into households' situations with a well-being dashboard, which looks at things such as incomes, debt and anxiety levels (Spoiler alert: the most recent version shows most things on the rise). And there'll be winners and losers across the country. The Bank of England has also doubled down on work to highlight the fate of different regions. But then there's what is left out by GDP: basically, anything unpaid, from volunteering to housework. In other words, items that aren't termed "market activity".Economist Paul Samuelson joked that if a man marries his maid, GDP falls. It's not so much a joke as a criticism (and not just of outdated gender stereotyping) that statisticians fail to value certain types of work. The problem is that without payment, such work is hard to put a price tag on. Holistic viewFeeling a bit hard done-by aside, how much does that matter, given what policymakers actually use GDP for? The Bank of England manages the economy by setting interest rates to influence spending and borrowing, while the government uses the figures to gauge how much tax might come in. And of course, there's a multitude of other factors - from crime to gender equality, biodiversity, access to clean energy and education levels - that hit our current and future living standards. These are just a few of the Sustainable Development Goals that the US has spelled out. The ONS has embarked on a marathon task to identify and measure hundreds of indicators to reflect those. They are about two-thirds of the way there - and even when they have finessed them, collecting the information on a regular basis may not be quick as gleaning GDP information. The number-crunchers acknowledge the need for a more "holistic" gauge of our well-being.GDP is three little letters that represents more than a trillion pounds of crucial and relatively easy to collect information on the financial state of our economy. It isn't perfect, but it still has its uses. 
Donald Trump Piles On To GOP Attacks Against Rashida Tlaib After Holocaust CommentsRepublican lawmakers took the congresswoman’s words about her Palestinian ancestors out of context. Marina FangPresident Donald Trump on Monday waded into his party’s attacks against Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.), whose comments about the Holocaust have been taken out of context by House GOP leaders in yet another example of bad-faith attacks against Muslim lawmakers. Trump claimed in a tweet that Tlaib made a “horrible and highly insensitive statement on the Holocaust,” and he accused her of “tremendous hatred of Israel and the Jewish people.”In an interview with Yahoo News published Saturday, Tlaib ― one of the first Muslim women elected to Congress and the subject of Islamophobic attacks ― explained her support for a one-state solution in the Israel-Palestine conflict. She said her Palestinian ancestors helped “create a safe haven for Jews” following the Holocaust. Several GOP House leaders seized on Tlaib using the phrase “a kind of a calming feeling,” and falsely said it describes how she feels about the Holocaust itself. Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) claimed Tlaib said that “thinking of the Holocaust provides her a ‘calming feeling.’”House Minority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) also criticized Tlaib by calling the comments “twisted and disgusting.”Fox News initially published a story with the headline “Rashida Tlaib slammed by House GOP over statement that Holocaust gives her ‘kind of calming feeling.’” It later edited the headline. Tlaib on Sunday criticized Republicans for “policing my words” and “twisting and turning them to ignite vile attacks on me.”
Donald Trump Spends Another Saturday Morning Rage RetweetingTrump even resorted at one point to retweeting himself. Donald Trump hit the retweet button hard on Saturday morning. The president went on yet another retweet rampage as he re-shared 60 posts in around 45 minutes that praised him, defended him or echoed his main talking points. Themes included immigration, his national emergency on the U.S.-Mexico border, special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia report, the economy, his trade war with China and his 2016 Democratic election rival Hillary Clinton. Posts from ultra-conservative website Breitbart News, Trump’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, GOP chairwoman Ronna McDaniel, Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Mike Huckabee, the former Republican governor of Arkansas, all figured in the avalanche of retweets. Trump also retweeted this 2018 post from his eldest son, Donald Trump Jr.And this one from former Fox News host Kimberly Guilfoyle, who is Trump Jr.’s girlfriend and a member of Trump’s 2020 reelection campaign. Trump even resorted at one point to retweeting himself: Trump has used retweet swarms on at least two previous occasions this month. On May 1, he deployed the tactic to defend himself following the International Association of Fire Fighters’ endorsement of Democratic presidential hopeful and former Vice President Joe Biden. Then, last Saturday, he swarmed again to criticize social media companies for de-platforming far-right extremists.
Georgia Abortion Ban Could Threaten The State’s Movie And TV IndustryStars have said they’ll boycott the state, where big tax credits attract projects like “Stranger Things” and “Avengers” films. Entertainment industry figures are speaking out against Georgia’s new abortion ban, potentially threatening the economy of a state whose generous film and television tax incentives have attracted many big Hollywood productions, from Netflix’s “Stranger Things” to Marvel’s “Avengers” franchise. A growing number of movie and TV stars and creators have condemned the “heartbeat” abortion law, which bars the procedure once a fetal heartbeat is detected. That can be as early as six weeks of pregnancy, when many women don’t even realize they’re pregnant yet. The measure was signed into law by Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R) on Tuesday. David Simon, creator of HBO’s “The Wire,” tweeted Wednesday that he would only “undertake production where the rights of all citizens remain intact.” On Thursday, producer Christine Vachon announced that her production company Killer Films ― behind a number of criticially acclaimed independent movies, including “Boys Don’t Cry,” “Far from Heaven” and “Carol” — would also not film in Georgia “until this ridiculous law is overturned.” On her E! talk show Tuesday night, actress Busy Philipps spoke out against the ban and shared her own story about getting an abortion. When Georgia legislators passed the bill in March, dozens of Hollywood actors signed a letter, spearheaded by actress Alyssa Milano, telling Kemp that they would not work in the state if the bill became law and pledging to “do everything in our power to move our industry to a safer state for women.” Georgia allows film and television projects income tax credits of up to 30%, which has attracted a number of major Hollywood productions. Marvel has filmed several installments of “The Avengers” at Pinewood Studios outside Atlanta, including “Avengers: Endgame,” which is currently breaking box-office records. Among TV series, AMC’s “The Walking Dead” and Netflix’s “Stranger Things” have also filmed heavily in Georgia. Netflix set the first two seasons of its “Queer Eye” reboot in and around Atlanta. In 2018, 455 movie and television productions filmed in Georgia, generating $2.7 billion in direct spending in the state, the governor’s office said last year. The state has also leveraged the productions to boost its tourism industry, with tour companies taking visitors to famous filming locations. In addition, the movies and TV shows themselves market the state by featuring the Georgia peach logo in their end credits. It’s not clear yet whether Hollywood will mount a large-scale boycott of Georgia, as many entertainment companies did in 2016 in North Carolina in response to that state’s anti-LGBTQ bill known as HB2. Marvel, AMC and Netflix did not immediately respond to requests for comment Wednesday on whether they planned to pull current or future productions from Georgia. In a statement later Wednesday, the Motion Picture Association of America said it plans “to monitor developments” on the law, which is unlikely to take effect immediately because, like other highly restrictive abortion laws, it is facing legal challenges.“It is important to remember that similar legislation has been attempted in other states, and has either been enjoined by the courts or currently being challenged,” spokesman Chris Ortman told Variety. “The outcome in Georgia will also be determined through the legal process.”Earlier this year, Netflix moved production of an upcoming show, “OBX,” from North Carolina to South Carolina, in part because of HB2. Three years ago, a number of large corporations ― including such Hollywood heavyweights as Disney (which owns Marvel) and Netflix ― threatened to boycott Georgia over a “religious liberty” bill that would have restricted services for LGBTQ people. Under mounting pressure, then-Gov. Nathan Deal (R) vetoed the bill. 
Joe Biden’s Rivals In Democratic Race Reject His ‘Middle Ground’ On Climate Policy. The former vice president’s approach drew criticism from Washington Gov. Jay Inslee (D), as well as Sens. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.).Three of former Vice President Joe Biden’s rivals in the Democratic presidential race took issue with his approach to combating climate change following a Friday report that he plans to pursue a “middle ground” to reduce carbon emissions.Washington Gov. Jay Inslee (D-Wash.), who has staked his candidacy on addressing climate change, was the first to explicitly argue against Biden’s approach. He issued a statement on Friday calling for “a bold climate plan for our future.” “Facing a crisis does not permit half-measures,” he said. “Half measures mean full extinction of millions of species and full economic damage to communities across America.” Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), who polls second behind Biden in most polls on the Democratic race, also counts climate change as an area of significant disagreement with Biden. “Joe talks about a ‘middle road’ on climate change,” Sanders said on MSNBC’s “Politics Nation with Al Sharpton” on Saturday. “Well, I think climate change is an existential threat to our planet. And the scientists tells us we’ve got 12 years to aggressively transform our energy system before we have irreparable harm to our country and the planet.“We have real differences,” he added. “I like Joe, I respect Joe and I look forward to an issue-oriented campaign.”Sanders’ remarks followed a Friday afternoon tweet he posted that, without naming Biden, criticized the idea of a “middle ground” on climate change policy.Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) also dismissed the idea of an approach to climate change that tries to split the difference between inaction and the most ambitious proposals for change.Asked by reporters after a campaign event in Warner, New Hampshire, on Saturday what she thought of Biden’s reported plans, GIllibrand replied, “I disagree.”She continued, “Global climate change is the greatest threat to humanity that exists today and we need solutions that are as bold and as urgent as the problem we actually face.”Gillibrand went on to discuss her support for the Green New Deal, a plan popular among progressives that would use massive infrastructure investments to transition the economy to entirely renewable energy within a decade. (She also supports re-entering the Paris climate accords and enacting a carbon tax.)Although former Rep. Beto O’Rourke of Texas did not specifically address Biden’s reported interest in a compromise-driven approach to reducing fossil fuel consumption, his strident tone during a speech outside a bar in Dover, New Hampshire, on Saturday also underscored the divergent strategies among the contenders for the Democratic nomination.O’Rourke opened his speech with an insistence that the threat of climate change becoming irreversible in the next decade made it necessary to “take the boldest possible positions and implement them, not by half measure, nor by half steps.”When asked what his top three priorities would be for using the power of executive orders upon entering office, O’Rourke named just one: addressing climate change.“The shot clock is winding down,” he said. “We’ve got 10 years and that’s it.” If you look at the UN report, there’s not room really for a middle road. Since Biden has yet to formally articulate his plans to combat climate change, it is not clear how wide of a gulf there is between the various candidates in terms of policy.Reuters reported Friday that Biden is preparing to introduce a climate plan aimed at attracting blue-collar workers who voted for President Donald Trump in 2016. The report is based on conversations with two Biden advisers, including Heather Zichal, a former adviser to ex-President Barack Obama who until last year sat on the board of a liquified natural gas exporter.Biden plans to recommit the U.S. to the Paris accord, which Trump has said he will withdraw from the moment it’s possible to do so. But in addition to promoting renewable energy, he hopes to use nuclear energy, natural gas and carbon capture technology to reduce U.S. carbon emissions.Other candidates have set firm carbon emissions reduction targets. Inslee has combined ambitious goals with detailed policy plans. His 2,900-word proposal lays out a path to make the country’s electricity system and cars carbon neutral by 2030.O’Rourke proposes spending $5 trillion on a renewable energy infrastructure transformation in order to make the country carbon neutral by 2050. But he has elicited skepticism from some climate activists for a 2015 vote in Congres to lift the ban on U.S. oil exports. And it took months of pressure to get him to sign a pledge not to accept donations of $200 or more from fossil fuel industry executives.Like Gillibrand, Sanders has embraced the Green New Deal’s 10-year benchmark, but neither of them has laid out a detailed plan explaining how they would get there.Sanders, however, is virtually alone among candidates in opposing fracking and supporting a phase-out of nuclear energy.Biden’s decision to opt for a compromise-driven approach to climate change is in keeping with his focus on the industrial states that cost Democrats the White House in 2016 ― Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania. He launched his campaign at the end of April at a union hall in Pittsburgh, where fracking jobs have been a lifeline to once declining labor unions.But the lack of a significant number of jobs linked to the fossil fuel industry in the early voting states of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina could diminish an advantage on the issue for Biden until later in the Democratic contest.Some New Hampshire Democrats who are eager for ambitious policies to combat climate change and discussed the issue with HuffPost on Saturday referred to an October 2018 report by a United Nations intergovernmental panel. The report concluded that absent major action, the climate will increase by 1.5 degrees Celsius as early as 2030, massively increasing the risk of catastrophic flooding and other disruptive events.“If you look at the U.N. report, there’s not room really for a middle road,” said New Hampshire state Rep. Clyde Carson (D), who supported Sanders in his 2016 bid for the Democratic nomination but remains undecided this time.Shaye Weldon, organizing director of the New Hampshire Young Democrats, which hosted O’Rourke’s event in Dover, is staying neutral in the primary race. But asked about Biden’s reported “middle ground,” she was adamant about the need for sweeping, rather than incremental, climate policies.“We are way behind on taking action on climate change,” Weldon said. “We don’t have time to wait.
”MyPillow Lays Off 150 Workers After Praising Trump’s Tax Cuts, ‘Booming Economy’. The brand’s CEO, Mike Lindell, penned an op-ed last year where he claimed “Trump is winning” for Minnesotans. Now, he’s laying off employees for a new business venture. Jenna AmatulliMyPillow, one of the few remaining advertisers frequently featured on Tucker Carlson’s Fox News show, is laying off more than 100 employees not even a year after the company’s founder praised President Donald Trump for creating a “booming economy.”In a statement to HuffPost, Mike Lindell, inventor, and CEO of MyPillow, told us via email that he’s in the process of launching an “online store for entrepreneurs and inventors to sell their products.” “As we prepare for the launch of MyStore.com, we are changing the layout of our Shakopee [Minnesota] factories so the fulfillment and shipping of all MyStore products can happen here,” he says, before adding that the “new direction” means layoffs for about 150 employees. Lindell said that while he values “each and every one of my employees,” “this is what is best right now for the future of MyPillow and to prepare for the launch of MyStore.com.”This move from Lindell comes less than a year after a June 2018 op-ed he penned for the Duluth News-Tribune where he celebrated Trump’s economic policies in a piece titled, “Rest easy, Minnesota; Trump is winning for us.”“After more than 500 days with Donald Trump as our president — with record-low unemployment and a booming economy — it’s clear, Minnesota, that we can rest easy,” wrote Lindell in the op-ed.“As a proud American business owner, I have seen firsthand the positive changes President Trump’s policies are bringing to our state. Because of the president’s historic tax cuts, I was able to give my employees an immediate across-the-board pay raise to help fuel their lives and advance their careers.”A spokesperson for Lindell told HuffPost via email that “the layoffs have nothing to do with what he talked about in that op-ed.” “This is actually an expansion, a new venture. But in order to prepare for it, he needed to restructure his factories, and as such, about 150 employees are [to] be out of work while that happens,” the spokesperson said. “He expects to be hiring again in the next eight weeks and when MyStore.com is up and running, he expects to be creating even more job opportunities.”MyPillow often advertises on Fox News and has done so a whopping 1,100 times since Jan. 1. As reporter Jordan Uhl notes, that’s “more than almost every other advertiser, including ramping up advertisements on costly primetime shows that saw advertisers leave due to rhetoric.
”The Superrich Can’t Agree On Stephen Moore’s Fed NominationIn the Republican Party, that’s a big problem. Stephen Moore’s proposed nomination to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors is collapsing. At least four Republican senators have voiced serious concerns about Moore, and on Tuesday, Sen. Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) told reporters she doesn’t think Moore has the 50 votes needed for confirmation. This is good news. Moore is a professional right-wing political operative who sometimes dresses up like an economist for TV appearances. He knows how to spout talking points about tariffs and taxes, but that’s about the extent of his economic knowledge. He wrongly predicted hyperinflation in 2009 (and 2010!), advised Kansas Gov. Sam Brownback (R) on a tax cut agenda that ravaged the state’s economy, and was once banned from the editorial pages of the Kansas City Star for sheer incompetence and dishonesty. After President Donald Trump announced his plan to nominate Moore last month, some of the terrible stuff Moore wrote as a conservative columnist began drawing more widespread scrutiny. He thinks individual states should be allowed to secede from the union. He doesn’t think women should be allowed to work in sports arenas (sports are for men!). He rambles off on weird homophobic tangents. “The gay rights movement is relentless, they are not going to stop here,” Moore told radio host Larry Kudlow after the Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage. “They are going to at some point you know arrest priests for not agreeing to marry gay couples. ... The gay rights movement which is so in your face right now has gone too far.”But Moore’s nomination is not falling apart because he is dumb, or because he is constantly wrong, or because his ideas about gender and economics are stuck in the 19th century ― though all of these do appear to be true. By those criteria, Kudlow would never have been confirmed as director of Trump’s National Economic Council.No, Moore’s nomination is crumbling because the superrich are divided about his candidacy. And when the superrich can’t reach a consensus in Republican Party affairs, other factors can become politically relevant. On the far right, anti-government purity calls for opposition to the conventional monetary policy operations of modern central banking. Economic outcomes should be determined by free markets, not government bureaucrats, the thinking goes. Therefore the Fed’s efforts to manage inflation, deflation and the international value of the dollar are crimes against freedom. The solution is a gold standard ― tying the value of the dollar to a certain amount of gold, thus restraining the government’s capacity to meddle. This is what former Rep. Ron Paul (R-Texas) was talking about when he called to “end the Fed.”As a conservative commentator, Moore repeatedly voiced support for the gold standard, and even talked it up on the campaign trail with Trump in 2016. But there’s a reason no country has used the gold standard for decades: the Great Depression. By limiting governments’ ability to respond to economic shocks like bank failures and stock market crashes, the gold standard fueled a deflation around the world. This deflation, in turn, crushed corporate profits and sparked horrific levels of unemployment. (The classic account is University of California, Berkeley economist Barry Eichengreen’s “Golden Fetters.”)Some Republican megadonors, including billionaire hedge fund magnates Robert and Rebekah Mercer, love the gold standard. It’s a question of freedom. But for other megadonors who want to keep making money from roaring stock markets and an economy that is not persistently mired in monetary muck, the gold standard is a dangerous threat to profits and stability. Jim Pethokoukis of the conservative American Enterprise Institute voices this perspective when he refers to talk of returning to gold as “crankery. ”So a great deal of Wall Street is rightly worried that Moore’s ultraconservatism would end up actually hurting the interests of the superrich. It may be the case that Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) was being sincere when she told Politico that Moore’s “troubling writings about women and our role in society” were a “concern” for her. But donor interests have a way of making Collins and other Republicans more comfortable with nominees who don’t share their views. Collins still insists that Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh is going to defend Roe v. Wade, all evidence to the contrary. Since Republican megadonors don’t agree about Stephen Moore and monetary policy, Republican senators don’t agree either, and Moore has given them plenty of material to cite when justifying their opposition. They might even believe some of it.
UK economy rebounds in first quarter. The UK economy picked up in the first three months of the year after manufacturers' stockpiling ahead of Brexit helped to boost growth. Growth was 0.5% in the quarter, up from 0.2% in the previous three months, the Office for National Statistics said. The manufacturing sector grew at its fastest rate since 1988 in the period. The ONS said this was driven by manufacturers rushing to deliver orders before the original Brexit deadline of 29 March. Pharmaceuticals was one of the sectors most affected, expanding 9.4% between January and March. Previous business surveys had shown manufacturers stockpiling goods for Brexit in case the UK left the EU without a transition deal, which they feared could lead to delays at UK borders. What impact has Brexit had on the figures? As well as manufacturers rushing to deliver orders before the UK was due to leave the EU, firms also stockpiled parts. This drove a surge in imports, with the total trade deficit - the gap between what the UK imports and exports - doubling in the first quarter to a record high, separate data from the ONS showed. The total trade deficit widened from £8.9bn to £18.3bn, driven partly by a sharp increase in imports of cars and gold. However, the UK's deadline to exit the EU has since been extended until the end of October after Prime Minister Theresa May asked the EU for more time to negotiate a deal.    Does GDP tell the whole economic story? Bank warns of 'more frequent' rate risesIs the economy stabilising? Chancellor Philip Hammond said the figures showed the economy remained "robust"."These GDP figures this morning show again that the UK economy is performing robustly, despite the evidence of slowing global growth and the continued Brexit uncertainty at home - so it's good news," he told the BBC. But analysts have warned the impact of Brexit could mean the pick-up in growth is short-lived. Tej Parikh, senior economist at business lobby group the Institute of Directors, said it could well be just "a flash in the pan"."Some businesses brought activity forward early this year in preparation for leaving the EU, so higher stocks and earlier orders have artificially bumped up the growth numbers."In the second quarter, many firms will be keen to run down their Brexit caches, which will drag on economic growth," he said. But Ruth Gregory, senior UK Economist at Capital Economics, said the figures offered some "encouraging signs that underlying growth gained some pace".She said household consumption growth was "solid" and pointed out that business investment grew "for the first time in four quarters".What do the trade figures tell us about the economy? There's something upbeat in today's figures and also something downbeat, quite possibly with the same cause. In spite of all the political fuss, the economy grew better than it has in a while. At 1.8% for the year, it is almost at pre-financial crisis rates, when growth of 2-3% a year was normal. The figures can be taken to confirm predictions that there would be a boost to economic growth from "stockpiling" - firms spending more than usual building up their stocks of supplies, just in case a no-deal Brexit meant cross-border trade seized up. Manufacturing enjoyed a boost and more cars were imported than usual. You can't tell from these figures alone, but that may also be due to stockpiling: a "buy-now-while-stocks-last" effect in case the pound dropped (making imported cars more expensive) and tariffs were imposed (ditto). But here's the downer. Partly due to higher imports, the trade deficit doubled, from £8.9bn to £18.3bn. Because we enjoy a surplus in services, exporting more than we import, it looks even worse when you strip out services. The trade in goods deficit in the first quarter widened to a record: £43.3bn including non-monetary gold, which rose by £6bn. We know from numerous economic studies: people buy gold when they're worried. It looks like, in the first quarter of the year, economic growth was lifted - by anxiety. It's small, but you might call it a mini "worry-boom". 